# Running HPG-MxP

We recommend specifying the size and runtime parameters using `--nx`,
`--ny`, `--nz`, `--rt`.  For example, for specifying the local
grid dimensions to be NX=NY=NZ=32, and the timed phase execution limit
of 30 minutes (1800 seconds) you can use
```
    mpirun -np 4 xhpgmp --nx=32 --ny=32 --nz=32 --rt=1800
```

For a quick check, go to the bin subdirectory in the install directory and run the HPGMP
executable as follows::
```
    mpirun -np 8 xhpgmp
```
Note that this will try to use a `hpgmp.dat` file in the current directory.
If you'd like to change the size of local dimensions of the problem to `NX=32`, `NY=24`, `NZ=16`,
then you can run the following::
```
    mpirun -np 8 xhpgmp 32 24 16
```

## Other command line options

### Running modes

There are 4 possible run modes for the code, selected at run time by the `xhpgmp` flag `--run_type` with 4 possible values:
- `benchmark`: The regular benchmark run with the timed double precision GMRES run in the end. Includes validation. Default.
- `benchmark_no_ref`: Regular benchmark but without double precision GMRES run in the end. Includes validation.
- `standalone_mxp`: Excludes validation, and only performs 10 timed MxP GMRES-IR runs. Ignores running time.
- `standalone_ref`: Excludes validation, and only performs 10 repetitions of double precision GMRES.

### Validation modes

The standard benchmark by Yamazaki et al. defines the validation phase on a small fixed number of ranks, typically 1 node. It then converges the double-precision GMRES on that sub-communicator of processes to 9 orders of magnitude, followed by mixed-precision GMRES-IR to 9 orders of magnitude. The ratio of iterations requried, $ n_d / n_{mxp} $ is taken as the ratio to penalize the final attained GFLOPS number.

However, there may be a concern that this may underestimate the degradation of convergence in real applications. We introduced validation at full scale to address this issue. All the processes available in the run, and used for the benchmarking phase, are also used for the validation phase. The global problem size used for the two phases is also the same. Two modes are provided:
- `standard`: Standard 1-node validation of Yamazaki et al.
- `fullscale`: Full scale DP GMRES is performed to a maximum of $n_d$ (10,000) iterations or relative residual tolerance 1e-9 (whichever comes first), and the attained residual reduction is recorded. This value is set as the tolerance for MxP GMRES-IR and the number of iterations $n_{mxp}$ are recorded.

## Setting up the input data file hpgmp.dat

Current as of release HPGMP - 0.1 - May 5, 2023

After  building  the executable `hpgmp_build/bin/xhpgmp`, (where `hpgmp_build` is your
build directory for HPGMP) one  may want  to  modify the
input  data  file  hpgmp.dat.  This file should  reside  in  the  same directory
as  the  executable `hpgmp_build/bin/xhpgmp`.
This  file  contains  information about the problem sizes,
machine configuration,  and  algorithm features to be used by the executable.
It is 4 lines long. All the selected parameters  will  be  printed in the
output generated by the executable.

### Description of the hpgmp.dat file

* Line 1: (unused) Typically  one  would  use this line for its own good. For
example, it could be used to summarize the con- tent of the input file. By
default this line reads:
```
HPGMP benchmark input file
```

* Line 2: (unused) same as Line 1. By default, this line reads:
```
Sandia National Laboratories; University of Tennessee, Knoxville
```

* Line 3: This line specifies the local (to an MPI process) dimensions of the
problem. By default, this line reads:
```
104 104 104
```

which means that each MPI process will be computing a solution for a cube of
size 104 points.

* Line 4: This line specifies the number of seconds of how long the timed
portion of the benchmark should run. By default, this line reads:
```
60
```

which means that the timed portion of the benchmark will run 1 minute.
This length of time is not sufficient for submitting an official run
but does give sufficient data for tuning the benchmark in most cases.
